---
title: Hello World
date: 2013-03-03T16:00:00+01:00
---

After writing over [300 articles](http://debuggable.com/posts/archive) between
2006 - 2009, I went on a bit of a blogging hiatus for the past three years.
This was mostly because node.js took off, and being one of the first
contributors sent a steady stream of speaking opportunities my way. This was a
lot of fun, but at this point I am a bit sick of traveling, and I have also
realized that conferences are not a good platform to share some of the things
I'm currently excited about. So for 2013 I've decided to cut my traveling to a
minimum, using this time to do a lot more writing instead.

So what will I be writing about?

Well, if you're following me on [twitter](https://twitter.com/felixge), you may
have noticed, that I've been talking a lot about [Go](http://golang.org/)
lately. That's because after a weekend of fooling around with it, I've started
using it quite a bit over the past few months, and have become very excited
about it. So there are many Go related things I'd like to share here in the
future, including how it compares to node.js.

Additionally Go has inspired me to come up with a new product and business
model we're currently pursuing at [transloadit](http://transloadit.com/). This
is exciting because I've never written much about the process we used to
bootstrap our business, and our new product should be an exciting case study
for anybody interested in bootstrapping software businesses without relying on
external funding. You may also be interested in the fact that our new product
will be 100% open source, and that I am planning to write a lot about the
underlaying strategy and business model.

And for those who are curious, the product itself is going to be a dedicated
file upload server called [tus](http://tus.io/), so expect to read a lot about
the challenges of file uploading, and how we're tackling them with Go.

Last but not least, I'm still heavily involved with the
[NodeCopter](http://nodecopter.com/) movement that
[Robin](http://twitter.com/rmehner), [Tim](https://twitter.com/tim_kos),
[Thorsten](https://twitter.com/thorstenball),
[Kida](https://twitter.com/kiida), [Matti](https://twitter.com/m_besser) and I
started last year, so as time allows, I'll write about quad copter hacking and
the events we're organizing.

So, that's it for now, but please make sure to subscribe to new posts if you're
interested in Making Money with Open Source, Go, File Uploads or Quad Copter
hacking - it should be interesting.
